for Verity the statement of the
messenger of Allah
is pure
and it will bring more comfort
he said
or praise belongs to Allah
who commanded
with the seeking of sustenance
and Allah commanded us
to earn a living
foreign
laziness
and inability
and the abandonment of the legislative
means
and he continued later and he said
muslim
it is upon every Muslim
to exert themselves in seeking
sustenance
yes brothers and sisters
it is upon every Muslim
to exert themselves
to work diligently in seeking sustenance
why
what's the reason for that look he never
said
wealth is worthless
you will not find that in the Quran you
will not find that in the Sunnah of the
prophet sallallahu
likewise he didn't say
if you work for someone you're a Slave
look how balanced his words are yes he
will conclude it's better if you can
do trade
or business or work for yourself
but also from
the permissible means to seek your
sustenance is that you take a job if you
can't find any other way
look at the balance
this message alhamdulillah is very
balanced why why is it balanced because
it's based upon Quran and Sunnah and we
will Shout again the translation of
bukhari you don't even have to know
Arabic to arrive at this conclusion in
this day and age there's a chapter in
bukhari that deals with this what's the
problem
many of us
we are relying upon podcasts for our
World Views podcasts are people who are
not people of knowledge nor have they
studied knowledge nor are they speaking
with knowledge
but it sounds good
but that's the danger when something
sounds good
if it's not analyzed in the correct
fashion and critique it can lead to
misguidance in our lives with your
protect us all from that
the Sheikh said
it's upon the Muslim that they work
diligently to earn their sustenance
so that they are self-sufficient and
have no need of the people yes we don't
beg
we do not beg and we do not ask of
others
likewise so that you can suffice
mentalism
those who you have to spend upon
your families your children your mother
your father
yes so that you can provide for them
likewise look wealth is not worthless
so that you can give charity yes
seek your sustenance so that you can
give charity
and you can spend in the Avenues of good
either
if Allah blesses the person with wealth
and the Sheikh he made a statement next
and this statement is a response to
those who say wealth is worthless he
said
and this is derived from a Hadith of the
Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam that
I will mention to you insha Allah
the Sheikh said how excellent is good
wealth lawful wealth for a good person
and the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam
he mentions something very similar
in an authentic Hadith he said
how excellent is righteous wealth for a
righteous man
so yes well it does have a value and no
doubt if you use it in the Avenues of
good if you use it and you give your
zakat you fulfill the obligations
that are upon you
and you give charity and you provide for
the poor and the needy that's one of the
ways Iran to remove depression and
misery from oneself is to give charity
he said and there are many ways to seek
one sustenance
and all praise belongs to Allah and they
have been made easy for mankind and he
said the first way that you can seek
your risk Naman we seek risk from Allah
because Allah
he said
he said the first way buying and selling
and commerce and renting
within the boundaries that Allah
azzawajal has legislated
and he said
lawful business
is the best of ways to earn a living and
to support oneself
somebody look that's balanced if
somebody was to say you know in the west
it is better for you if you can that you
have your own business
or that you have your own trade or
you're a mechanic or an electrician or a
plumber because alhamdulillah you can go
to the Masjid and you can pray your
salawat that's balanced
but to say that if you work you're a
Slave
the Sheikh is
and he mentioned the principle from the
principles of Islam
the base rule
the origin as it relates to dealings
is that they are lawful and permissible
unless there is a text to establish that
they are forbidden and unlawful
and he mentioned the verse from the
Quran as a proof of that
all you who believe
do not eat the wealth of one another in
falsehood unlawfully
unless it is by way of business and
trade
among you and there is mutual consent
there is agreement from both parties
so he mentioned what
one of the ways
through business buying and selling yes
ma'am and we encourage the brothers
and even in this day and age the sisters
you can sell things from Amazon
she was a businesswoman
in the boundaries that Allah legislated
in this day and age you can come up with
creams and sell them on Amazon
or organic products for example that's
just one example you don't have to leave
your house
and you can earn a living
there are many ways that Allah has made
easy for us
another way to seek sustenance
he said from the ways of earning a
lawful living and yet
is for people to learn trades and
handicrafts
foreign
yes
becoming a carpenter an electrician
contractor or other than that
in America and likewise here we have
brothers alhamdulillah contractors and
they're earning a good living buying
houses fixing the house and selling it
brother's doing very well electricians
plumbers and other than that
learning a tree
and inshallah later and we will see I
mean we could introduce it here
this is what we find from the prophets
and The Messengers
if we look at some of the Hadith
we find inside Muslim
is
a carpenter
he was a carpenter now you have a trade
and if someone has a trade yes as
communities if we want to grow you're a
carpenter why are we waiting for other
schemes and programs teach people
say listen I'm going to teach the
Shabbat that's one of the ways as well
to keep them from the streets I'm going
to teach you how to be an electrician or
teach you how to be a plumber or teach
you how to be a carpenter or teach you
how to be a painter and so on and so
forth
taking away from anything from you
that's the way we have to look at things
some people they think that if I teach
this person what I do I'm going to lose
out no your risk is written with Allah
and Allah
Allah is the servant as much as the
servant AIDS their brother why not that
was the mentality of the sahaba as we
find in the narration of Anis
between a Brotherhood between him and
sad even though
sad was rich
look at the mentality of the companions
that's why they were the best of people
after the prophets and The Messengers
he was rich
look the prophet salallahu legislated
something submitted wholeheartedly and
look at the level of implementation he
went above and beyond he gave the offer
he said come
in his Fame he said come and I will
divide my wealth into two halves half
for you half for me I'll divorce my wife
so you can marry one of my wives
look at that level of Brotherhood the
world has not seen anything like it and
it wasn't based upon the color of
person's skin it wasn't based upon the
tribe it wasn't based upon their lineage
it was based upon Allah
that was where Allegiance revolved
around
not like today where you see various
nationalistic movements even some of the
Muslims
and we fear for them defending the
Hebrew Israelites defending the Nation
of Islam people upon clear cover and Ill
had
because of nationalism that's how
diseased and corrupt their hearts have
become
but the companion abdulrahman even if he
said
he said may Allah bless you your family
and your wealth he said show me to the
marketplace meaning he wanted to do
business for himself
look he was offered he didn't ask
there's nothing wrong accepting a gift
that's allowed in the religion somebody
gives you a gift you can accept it yeah
is even if the gift comes around a
Muslim
you can accept it if it's something
that's lawful
but he said no shot me to the
marketplace
show me to the marketplace look at that
honor and dignity
the upper hand is better than the lower
hand
someone going around begging and asking
others they lose respect
they lose respect for Allah
continually sin
he said likewise for Catholic
inshallah summarize because there's
quite a bit to cover
he said
the Muslims should learn engineering
now I'm studying importance of Education
engineering
likewise medicine
and other than that yes learning these
things
learning medicine Pharmacy
lawful things why alhamdulillah that you
can provide for yourselves and you can
provide for your families
if you do it
seeking the face of Allah
you'll be rewarded for that
if you do these things which are the
origin is that they're permissible but
you're doing it for the sake of Allah as
you did you want to become a doctor you
become a doctor so that you can go to
various parts of the Muslim world and
alhamdulillah you can service the
community or even the non-muslims who
cannot afford it
because as we know in the Hadith of the
Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam there
is charity for anything and everything
that has a much liver
yeah
there's a Hadith that
many passed by Mariah
a man passed by the prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam
and the companions of the messenger of
Allah they saw the strength of this man
and his zeal
and
they said oh messenger of Allah
if only this man was going out in the
path of Allah
imagine
what he would be able to accomplish
the prophet he responded
he said yes
if this man goes out
striving
you're striving to provide for his
children his child who is Young
then he's in the path of Allah look
subhanallah the intention
if he goes out and he's trying to
provide for his children who are young
he is in the path of Allah
if he goes out and he's exerting himself
because he's trying to assist his
parents who have become elderly then
he's in the path of Allah
and if he goes out and he's exerting
himself so that he doesn't have any need
he's protecting his dignity
of Allah
but if he goes out
showing off and boasting then he's in
the path of the devil
and there's a benefit Juan that I want
to share with you
from the tafsir of him Allah
he derives
that those who go out to provide for
themselves and their families and those
who they have to provide for in search
of the sustenance of Allah
that they are similar to The mujahidun
those whose fight or strive in the path
of Allah what can does anyone know what
Ayah he explains with this meaning
for them
how's that there for that though
have a book inshallah if anyone can get
the answer
I think the brothers behind me might see
it
ibona Phil Hardy yeah
and a group of them
they go out and they travel in the earth
searching for The Bounty of Allah
and there are others
they are fighting in the path of Allah
said so that I'm giving you the
understanding of the scholars of Islam
this is not from me that is why when we
disagree brothers and sisters because as
humans we're going to disagree we're
going to disagree about things maybe you
have a view I have a view but if we find
a verse or a Hadith in that matter we
say what
we hear we submit it over they don't
need to be a discussion
you mentioned the verse I submit you
don't come back with this I think or
we're living in a different time or the
world today we don't want that
philosophy
he said
a famine at the eighth point
foreign
look how Islam is totally opposed to
that idea that working for someone is
the person that works for someone is a
Slave
he said Allah
mentioned the level of the mujahideen
along with those who earn lawful wealth
so that they can provide for themselves
and their family Allah mentioned them
together
in the same verse
he said this is a proof that earning
lawful wealth is a type of jihad why
because Allah mentioned it along with
the Jihad fees
the prophet sallallahu said about the
one who goes out to earn a living to
provide for his children he said he's in
the sabeel of Allah
he's in the path of Allah he never said
that person is a Slave
and yes look subhanallah working for
Zan he will mentioned beautiful
and inshallah we mentioned that when we
get to it
he said lastly risk
is
he said likewise another means to attain
a lawful living a lawful livelihood
lawful earnings is for a person to get a
job
where they have no need of the people
they do not depend upon the people and
then he said follow us
the Sheikh said yes a job should be the
last means if you can and you can start
your own business if you can learn a
trade alhamdulillah that's better but at
the end of that if you can't do none of
that then alhamdulillah there's nothing
wrong with working a job why is that
ichwan if we look at the adilah the
proofs and the evidences as the brothers
they mentioned
as we find in the book of Allah
azzawajal
he worked for the elderly man in median
for how many years
huh
10.
eight and he said if you do ten it's a
favor from yourself
likewise the prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam he said in the Hadith
Allah did not send a prophet except that
he heard it sheep
and he was asked even your messenger of
Allah he said yes I used to heard and
graze the Sheep
for amount of wealth for the people of
Mecca there's nothing wrong
with working
for others if you have to if there's a
need for it nothing wrong whoever says
that is a slave or slavery they oppose
what we find in the book of Allah and
the son of the Prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam look how balanced shift falls
on see that's the difference when you
talk with knowledge you express the
point and it's balanced
imagine then for example look at one of
the dangers of this mentality you have a
young brother
tries business it doesn't work Nam
doesn't have the opportunity to learn a
trade but they have to get a jump that
person may end up depressed
oh I'm failure I'm a slave I work for
someone else it just leads to misery
and will get the most important thing
will get to it is to be content with
whatever Allah is written for you yes
you strive the prophet told us
strive to do that which is beneficial
for you
seek the aid of Allah and do not be lazy
yes strive to do that which is
beneficial in the religious sense and
also in the worldly sense
you become successful alhamdulillah if
not it's still alhamdulillah because
that was written for you and you are
content as a Muslim with whatever Allah
has decreed for you you are pleased with
it and that is if you have that
mentality whether you have a dollar in
your pocket or a million dollars you
will be mean from the happiest of the
people that walk this Earth question
the prophet salallahu
was he from the richest people of the
Earth
but we say that he was the happiest of
the people of the Earth right
the most Pious of the people of the
earth he was said well at the Adam he
was the best of all of the children of
Adam
but again and I mentioned this before
when um saw the marks of the mattress
upon his back because his mattress was
so hard
he cried
he cried and he mentioned that look at
the riches of the kings of the Romans
and the Persians and you are the
messenger of Allah the prophet
sallallahu said
foreign
meaning yes Allah may give you this word
alhamdulillah if Allah blesses you use
your wealth like we found the companions
using their wealth
yes and if you're rich
and permissible jealousy for a man who
Allah blessed with wealth and he spends
it in the path of Allah but not like
some people today and this is the
mentality everyone again those people
that preach this message
and they say that if you work for
someone that you're asleep they want to
show you on Instagram I have this car I
have a Lamborghini I have a Rolls-Royce
I have this million dollar watch I have
this and I have that my conclusion is
Juan those people they're still not
content why because if you are content
why do I have to go on Instagram and
show yes this is my watch
so have a nice watch have a nice watch
alhamdulillah
why am i showing you
I'm enjoying it
enjoying time with your family why do
you have to show the world
because they're still not content
they're still not happy
so they have to try and brag and boast
and get other people's attention or
they're looking for admiration and that
still won't make them happy it will make
them more miserable but if you are
content with whatever Allah gives you if
Allah gives you a million dollars
alhamdulillah you enjoy your life you're
comfortable alhamdulillah you'll be
happy still some of the salaf they used
to say how do you know that a person is
not addicted to this world
they said if you have a lot of money
you're still content if you have a small
amount of money you're still content
but does that mean that you stay at home
and you're lazy and you don't go out and
work you don't get an education you
don't work hard in school you don't get
a career that doesn't mean none of that
you strive
but whatever is written for you
it's not going to miss you or whatever
misses you it was never going to hit you
so the Sheikh he said
is
foreign
they've tried they don't find any other
way damn then they get a job why so that
they suffice themselves they do not rely
upon the people and they can support
their family those who they have to take
care of and they do not just remain you
know lazy
sleep yeah and staying at home
feet under you know sofa watching TV all
day and they cannot even provide for
their family that's not a man what role
model are you giving for your children
what role model is that but that's why
also another harm and danger of saying
that you know people who work for others
they are a slave the danger of that you
should look at your father if your
father is out there working and he's
provided you with an opportunity to get
an education or an opportunity to better
yourself and your father even for
example he's a trashman but he goes out
diligently every morning that should be
your hero not someone on a podcast
talking about wealth has no value you
should be respecting your father but no
you're looking at this guy you don't
know anything about him and you know
he's your hero all of a sudden that and
you don't even know it that he's leading
you to misery and you're looking at your
father like yeah my father's a Slave
your father should be a hero team
he feds you he provide he provided for
you you and your brothers and your
sisters he tried to protect you like was
your mother
we have commanded mankind
to be respectful to their parents why
the mother carried the child in
difficulty gave birth to the child in
difficulty carrying the child
breastfeeding the child was 30 months
Nam yes son
not that I look at my father my father
you know
cleans the street he's a Slave
look at that mentality
look how dangerous it is and it's
creeping creeping amongst the youth
that's what happens when we are nurtured
upon other than the book of Allah and
the son of the Prophet salallahu alaihi
again the translation you don't even
need to know Arabic look I'll open it
bukhari has a chapter
this is not difficult but the problem is
how many of us are reading the book of
Allah how many of us are reading buhari
and how many of us are just watching you
know Dave and John on podcasts
the earnings of a person
and their manual labor and it brings
narrations from the narrations that he
brings
she said
that the companions of the messenger of
Allah
they used to work manual labor
so their sweat used to smell
and they were advised to take a bath
that's Anna you go out and you you earn
a living for yourself that's honor you
come home regardless of if as long as it
was halal
some of the Allama they said in the
Quran
whoever performs righteous Deeds whether
they are male or female while they are a
Believer we will give them a good life
some of them said a good life is a Halal
sustenance
some of them said it means to be content
yes
how can you look down on that
for Allah to give you a Halal living is
a blessing from the blessings of Allah
likewise buhari mentions the Hadith of
the Prophet salallahu Allah
nobody has ever eaten a meal that is
better than what they have earned with
their own hand
he used to eat from the earnings of his
manual labor
why was thou singled out here
Ascent that's wine
what's your name
is
cooperation makes things easy brother
what's your name
now
Juan and there are many proofs and
evidences
all of you must probably know some of
the ayat let's mention them inshallah
have books to give away so
inshallah we have various
books and this is an excellent book I
advise all of the brothers and the
sisters to read it with regards to how
to obtain a good life and to remove from
oneself
distress and anxiety
on worries
based upon the kitab and the Sunnah
Nam
ayat a Hadith and practical Solutions
that all of us can Implement and all of
us can understand this and relate to it
Nam who can give me another proof from
the Quran about the Excellence of
earning a living and seeking one sustana
Nam
asan go before it though
because even before it is another proof
in that
what's the fight from that oh you who
believe
when the call for prayer is made for
Juma
Nam live off Bayer buying and selling
exactly outside of the Salah and a
living
and the foreign
[Music]
nothing wrong with that yes I mentioned
if you can be a business person
learn a trade Jameel learn to be an
engineer a doctor a dentist other than
that Jameel now if not having a job
Jameel jaid is that is
made buying and selling lawful and his
forbidden user and interest
what's your name in Sada
is did I say ayat I said
um
many proofs but inshallah clothes with
the Hadith of the Prophet salallahu
alaihi wasallam when he said
the one
who Embraces Islam
and they have been given sufficient
sustenance
and Allah has made them
pleased with what
has been given to them
surely they are successful look
the prophet salallahu said the one who
accepts Islam the Muslim
Allah gives them that which is
sufficient for them
means
and the content with that that is
successful
now how can we complain
that is why we are taught in Islam what
we don't look to the ones who are above
us we look to those who are below us
because that way we will always always
be grateful for the blessings of Allah
and we will never be ungrateful
none with that alhamdulillah
if there's any questions
huh
okay I know nothing about that
foreign
you promise
if you know those ayat you know those
you'll say to your brother you're going
a bit too far
as he said it's better if you can do
business but he is Honorable to work
understand
and you look subhanallah even as it
relates to these things our view is
based upon what texts
Quran and Sunnah
as it relates to women and men and the
roles and responsibilities of women and
men and the rights of women and men
this has been dealt with by the Quran
and the Sunnah
you're not in need of my opinions or the
opinions of anyone else
from the creator of the heavens and the
Earth
the all-knowing
who created all of us and knows what is
in our interests and knows what is
harmful and detrimental to us
a lot of stuff on social media a lot of
stuff on social media is just for show
it's the new Hollywood
you know before to be in a movie they
had to go to Hollywood today all you
have to do is be on Instagram
people on Instagram they're pretending
you know I have so much money they take
all their savings and show you know this
is all the money I have that might not
be even their money
it's not even a reality
and look at Juan the danger of that
again and inshallah that's a topic in
itself how social media poses a lot of
the things that Nam meaning the wrong
usage if it's used in a good way
alhamdulillah but if it's used in an
improper way
it can lead a person to have a deviated
worldview and likewise it can just lead
to more misery